.TH "pacparse" "1" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
pacparse \- tool to parse Proxy Auto\-Config (PAC) files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pacparse \-p pacfile \-u url [\-h host] [\-c clientip] [\-U pacurl] [\-46edv]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B pacparse 
is a tool to parse Proxy Auto\-Config (PAC) files. It returns the
proxy config string for the given URL and PAC file. 
.B pacparse 
uses the pacparser C library for most of its functionality.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-p pacfile
PAC file to parse. Specify "-" to read from standard input.
.TP 
.B \-u url
URL to pass as a parameter to the PAC file's FindProxyForURL function.
.TP 
.B \-h host
Host part of the URL. If not specified, it is determined from the URL.
.TP 
.B \-c clientip
Client's IP address, as returned by the function myIpAddress() in PAC files.
If not specified, it defaults to the IP address associated with the hostname
of the machine on which the tool is running, or 127.0.0.1 if that can't
be found.
.TP 
.B \-U pacurl
URL that the PAC file came from, used to identify the client IP address in
a more reliable way.  The tool parses the host name from the URL,
attempts to connect to each address associated with that host name
with a UDP socket until one is successful, and then uses the IP address
associated with the client side of that socket.
.TP 
.B \-4
Use only IPv4 addresses for -U.
.TP
.B \-6
Use only IPv6 addresses for -U.
.TP 
.B \-e
Enable Microsoft PAC extensions (dnsResolveEx, myIpAddressEx, isResolvableEx).
.TP 
.B \-d
Enable debugging messages.
.TP 
.B \-v
Print version and exit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
To find out the proxy config string for the PAC file "wpad.dat" and the URL
"http://www.google.com":
.PP 
$ pacparse \-p wpad.dat \-u http://www.google.com

For a client with IP address 10.0.12.123:
.PP 
$ pacparse \-p wpad.dat \-c 10.0.12.123 \-u http://www.google.com

For a PAC file hosted at http://wpad/wpad.dat:
.PP 
$ curl \-s http://wpad/wpad.dat | \\
    pacparse \-p \- \-u http://google.com \-U http://wpad/wpad.dat
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pacwget(1),
pacparser_init(3)
.SH "BUGS"
If you have come across a bug in pacparse, please submit a bug report at
https://github.com/pacwget/pacwget/issues.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Manu Garg (http://www.manugarg.com) and Dave Dykstra.
.SH "RESOURCES"
Homepage: https://github.com/pacwget/pacwget.

