.TH "pactester" "1" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
pactester \- Tool to test proxy auto\-config (pac) files.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pactester \-p pacfile \-u url [\-h host] [\-c client_ip] [\-U pacurl] [\-e]
.PP 
.B pactester \-p pacfile \-f urlslist [\-c client_ip] [\-U pacurl] [\-e]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
pactester is a tool to test proxy auto\-config (pac) files. It returns the
proxy config string for the given URL and the pac file. pactester uses
pacparser C library for most of its functionality.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-p pacfile
PAC file to test. Specify "-" to read from the standard input.
.TP 
.B \-u url
URL to test the PAC file for.
.TP 
.B \-h host
Host part of the URL. If not specified, it's determined from the URL.
.TP 
.B \-c client_ip
Client's IP address (as returned by the function myIpAddress() in PAC files).
If not specified, it defaults to the IP address of the machine on which
this tool is running.
.TP
.B \-U pacurl
URL that the pacfile came from.  Used to set the client's IP address
(see -c) by opening a UDP socket to the host part of the URL and
finding out which local IP address would be used to reach it.  More
reliable than the default method of finding the client IP address on
clients with multiple IP addresses.
.TP 
.B \-e
Enable Microsoft PAC extensions (dnsResolveEx, myIpAddressEx, isResolvableEx).
.TP 
.B \-f urlslist
A file containing the list of URLs to be tested. This is good for testing a PAC file against a set of URLs.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
To find out the proxy config string for the pac file "wpad.dat" and the URL
"http://www.google.com":
.PP 
$ pactester \-p wpad.dat \-u http://www.google.com

For a client with IP address 10.0.12.123:
.PP 
$ pactester \-p wpad.dat \-c 10.0.12.123 \-u http://www.google.com

For a pac file hosted at http://wpad/wpad.dat:
.PP 
$ curl \-s http://wpad/wpad.dat | \\
    pactester \-p \- \-u http://google.com -U http://wpad/wpad.dat
.SH "BUGS"
If you have come across a bug in pactester, please submit a bug report at
http://github.com/pacparser/pacparser/issues.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Manu Garg (http://www.manugarg.com).
.SH "RESOURCES"
Homepage: http://github.com/pacparser/pacparser.

