.TH "pacwget" "1" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
pacwget \- robustly get http URLs using multiple proxies and servers
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pacwget [--only-proxies] [GNU_WGET_OPTIONS]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B pacwget
is a tool that uses GNU wget in such a way that target http URLs are
retrieved even if some of multiple proxies and/or target servers are not
functioning.  The "pac" part of the name comes from its support of
Proxy Auto\-Config (PAC) files for configuring proxies.
.P
The configuration of proxies (including via PAC URLs) comes from the
environment (see below), but multiple servers are recognized through
round\-robin DNS names of the host part specified in the target http
URLs.  With each proxy (unless the option
.B --only-proxies
is given),
.B pacwget
first tries the target URL and if that fails and the host part of the URL
is a round\-robin DNS name, it tries replacing the host part of the URL
with each IP address from the round\-robin while using the same proxy.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.B pacwget
uses the following environment variables:
.TP
.B HTTP_PROXIES
A semicolon\-separated list of URLs to try as http proxies in order.
The last one in the list may be "DIRECT" which means to use no proxy
and connect directly to the host server in target http URLs being
retrieved.
.TP
.B http_proxy
If HTTP_PROXIES is not set, but http_proxy is, then it is used as a
single http proxy URL.  Note that it may identify a round\-robin of
more than one proxy, but direct connections to the target server is not
an option.
.TP
.B PAC_URLS
If neither HTTP_PROXIES nor http_proxy is set, then PAC_URLS is used
as a semicolon\-separated list of URLs to try to read Proxy Auto\-Config
files to parse for a list of http proxies.  The word "auto"
is converted to "http://wpad/wpad.dat" as is commonly used for Web
Proxy Auto Discovery.  The last one in the list may be "DIRECT" which
means to directly connect to the target server if no PAC file can be
read.  Otherwise the PAC URLs may begin with http:// or file://, although
if file:// is used then the myIpAddress() function available inside the
PAC file uses a less reliable method to determine the client's IP
address (using a DNS lookup on the hostname instead of using the
client IP from the socket connecting to the PAC file's http server).
The url & host parameters to the FindProxyForURL function in the PAC
file are derived from the first command line http:// parameter.  If a
PAC file is successfully read, it must return a list of proxies or
"DIRECT", otherwise it is a fatal error and no further PAC URLs are
tried.  The default value of $PAC_URLS if it is not set is
"auto; DIRECT".
.SH "OPTIONS"
First, note that unlike with wget, the ordering of options is significant with
.BR pacwget :
only the options that come before a URL apply to that URL.  In this
way, different options can be specified with multiple URLs in the same
invocation of 
.BR pacwget .
The same list of proxies are applied to each http:// URL, although wget is
invoked separately for each URL on the 
.B pacwget
command line.
.P
There is one option added by
.BR pacwget :
.TP
.B \-\-only\-proxies
Print to stdout a $HTTP_PROXIES-like list of proxies (that is,
semicolon separated and may end in "DIRECT") that would be used
instead of downloading the given URL(s) with wget.  This is useful
for downloading and parsing PAC files.  Requires one URL that starts
with http://.
.P
All other options are passed to wget, but some cause additional action in 
.BR pacwget
and are described here:
.TP 
.B \-\-connect\-timeout=SECS
Sets the connection timeout to SECS seconds for retrieving both PAC URLs
and target URLs.  If a proxy or a target server does not respond in
that amount of time, the next one is tried.  Default 5.
.TP
.B \-\-read\-timeout=SECS
Sets the read timeout to SECS seconds for retrieving both PAC URLs and
target URLs.  If no data is received from a proxy or a target server in that
amount of time, the next one is tried.  Default 10.
.TP
.B "\-T SECS"
Sets both the connect and read timeout to SECS seconds.
.TP
.B "\-\-tries=N"
Try all wget connections for both PAC URLs and target URLs N times.
Default 1.
.TP
.B "\-\-inet4\-only" or "\-4"
Use only IPv4 addresses for both wget and for the myIpAddress() function
in PAC files.
.TP
.B "\-\-inet6\-only" or "\-6"
Use only IPv6 addresses for both wget and for the myIpAddress() function
in PAC files.
.TP
.B "\-\-debug" or "\-d"
In addition to adding debug messages to all uses of wget, also enable
debugging in PAC file parsing.
.TP
.B "\-\-verbose" or "\-v"
This is the default for wget for the target URL, but if this is
explicitly set then it is also used for PAC URLs.  In addition, if
neither debug nor verbose is set, PAC URLs are retrieved with the
wget \-\-quiet option.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
To retrieve target URL "http://www.google.com" using proxies defined
in "http://wpad/wpad.dat" and not allow direct connections:
.PP 
$ export PAC_URLS=auto
.br
$ pacwget http://www.google.com
.P
To try an additional WPAD server after the usual one and allow
direct connections if that also doesn't work:
.PP 
$ export PAC_URLS="auto; http://wpad.shared.domain/wpad.dat; DIRECT"
.br
$ pacwget http://www.google.com
.P
To directly set a list of possible proxies, with debugging enabled:
.PP
$ export HTTP_PROXIES="http://squid:3128;http://squid.friend.dom:3128"
.br
$ pacwget -d http://www.google.com
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pacparse(1),
pacparser_init(3)
.SH "BUGS"
If you have come across a bug in pacwget, please submit a bug report at
https://github.com/pacparser/pacparser/issues
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Dave Dykstra.
.SH "RESOURCES"
Homepage: https://github.com/pacparser/pacparser

